I have today ordered to Vietnam the Airmobile Division
and certain other forces which will raise our fighting strength
from 75,000 to 125,000 men almost immediately.
This will make it necessary to increase our active fighting forces
by raising the monthly draft call from 17,000 to 35,000.
December 30th.
All those whose birthday falls on December 30th.
President Johnson announced new monthly draft totals
increasing to 35,000 per month.
‎43,000 per month   51,000
382,386 men between the ages of 18 and 24 have been called to duty.
Now it should be incandescently clear
that no one who has any concern for the integrity and life of America today
can ignore the present war.
If Americas soul becomes totally poisoned,
part of the autopsy must read, Vietnam.
What we need in the United States is not hatred,
but is love and wisdom.
So I ask you tonight to return home,
to say a prayer for the family of Martin Luther King.
August 24th.
‎All those whose birthday falls
Another 30,000 troops have been deployed to the region.
This, after the US saw its greatest increase in monthly casualties.
What we saw were population centers.
Schoolhouses, pagodas, women and children.
And thats American napalm.
Women and children were burned alive. Tom?
The Democratic Party
is gonna end up nominating Hubert Humphrey next month in Chicago.
Now, when it comes to the war and social justice,
there is simply not enough of a difference
between Humphrey and Nixon to make a difference.
And so, were going to Chicago.
Young people, by busloads, will go to Chicago
to show our solidarity and our disgust.
‎But most importantly
To get laid by someone you just met.
536,000 of us sent to a country
none of these bumpersticker patriots in Washington could find on a map
with a motherfuckin map!
Were goin to Chicago.
Anyone who stays in the park, sings Woody Guthrie, theyll be fine.
But the cops are gonna be a halfinch from losin their fuckin minds,
cause Daleys gonna wind em up to make sure of it.
Were goin to Chicago peacefully. Were goin peacefully.
But if were met there with violence,
‎you better believe that were gonna meet that violence with
Nonviolence. Always nonviolence, and thats without exception.
What if the police hit you?   Why would the police hit me?
What if they do?   Ill duck.
David, he watches the news.
Ive organized 100 protests. This one will be no different in that it almost certainly wont work.
The police are   Im not worried about them.
Im worried about Hoffman and Rubin.
Its the Democratic National Convention, honey.
Every camera in America is gonna be pointed at it,
and Daley is not gonna let his city turn into a theater of war.
Hoffman and Rubin are geniuses in their own special way.
Oh, dear God.   Hes got a Boy Scout meeting at 7:00.
Dad, if the police   If the police try to arrest me,
Ill do what I always do and what I taught you to do, which is what?
‎Very calmly and very politely
Fuck the motherfuckers up!
They leave us alone and everythings cool.
They tangle, disrupt, intimidate,
play fast and loose with the First Amendment,
start breaking heads, then we will not be on our way.
You cant give this speech in Chicago.
Fred wants me there. Plane ticket.   Let Fred give the speech.
Between Hayden and Hoffman, there could be 5,000 people.
Be nice to talk to 5,000 people.
Not while youre in trouble in Connecticut.
Im the head of the Black Panthers, Sondra.
When wont I be in trouble? Travel bag.
Youll be in a lot more of it if you stand up and say, Fry the pigs.
If they attack. Takin it out of context.
So will every white person in America. Cops wont give a shit about context.
You dont have protection in Chicago.
Theres no place to be but in it.
But fry the pigs?   If they attack
Dr. King   Is dead.
He has a dream? Now he has a fuckin bullet in his head.
Martins dead, Malcolms dead, Medgars dead, Bobbys dead, Jesus is dead.
They tried it peacefully, we gonna try something else.
Sondra, Ill be there for four hours. Thats it.
Snack.
Youll at least take one of these?
If I knew how to use that, I wouldnt need to be making speeches.
Its named after the Russian commissar Vyacheslav Mikhailovich Molotov.
You start with a glass bottle.
‎You fill it up halfway with gasoline and motor oil
You pack some Styrofoam, and now your cherry bomb.
‎Some chewing gum around the top
‎and a fuse.
Now!
The 35th National Democratic Convention is set to begin next week
with repeated assurances from Chicago Mayor, Richard J. Daley.
Will it be a good convention, Mr. Mayor?   The best ever held.
Is that Jerry?   Yeah.
Tell him to tell Abbie were going to Chicago to end the war
and not to fuck around.
Tom says to tell Abbie that were going to Chicago to end the war
and not to fuck around.
Hayden says were goin to Chicago to end the war and not to fuck around.
Tell Hayden I went to Brandeis and I can do both.
Were going to show that we, as a generation, are serious people.
People say, Abbie, are you concerned about an overreaction from the cops?
I issued a police order to shoot to kill any arsonists.
Were not concerned about it.
Four units of the Illinois National Guard, totaling 5,000 troops,
have been sent to Chicago.
Were countin on it!
We wanna underscore again that were coming to Chicago peacefully,
but whether were given permits or not, were coming.
‎An additional 10,000 Chicago police officers, including riot squads
Were not going to storm the convention with tanks or mace,
but we are going to storm the hearts and minds of the American people.
These people are revolutionaries
bent on the destruction of the government of the United States of America.
The Democratic Convention is about to begin in a police state.
There just doesnt seem to be any other way to say it.
Youve arrived at a moment in history.
Pardon?
Theyre changing the picture.
Tom.   Howard.
Flew in all right?   Sure.
Richard Schultz?   Yes, sir.
Howard Ackerman, Special Advisor to the Attorney General.
Pleased to meet you.   Anyone tell you what this is about?
No, sir. Just to meet Mr. Foran at OHare this morning, wed fly to Washington.
Wed be meeting Mr. Mitchell.   Good.
Finally changing that goddamn picture. Come on in.
As a matter of courtesy and tradition,
when we elect a new president, the outgoing cabinet members resign
to spare the new president the unpleasantness of firing em.
Richard, do you know when President Nixon
received Ramsey Clarks formal letter of resignation?
No, sir.   About an hour before my confirmation.
That was to embarrass me.
I dont know, I think it was more embarrassing for Ramsey Clark.
Im John Mitchell.
Thomas Foran, Mr. Attorney General, and this is Richard Schultz.
Richard, Chicago is more fucked up than any ten things Ive ever seen in my life.
Sir?   The convention, the riots.
Yes, sir.   Sit.
Johnnie Walker okay with everybody?   Yes, thank you.
Richard?   Nothing for me, thank you.
We dont know how Humphreys people could have been that stupid.
Allow their guy to be nominated under armed guard.
Sir?   Son, are you nervous?
No, sir.   Why the fuck not?
Im kidding. Dont believe everything youve heard about me.
Ramsey Clark gave me the finger on the way out the door.
Im asking if you think Chicago was why Humphrey lost the election.
No, sir. The Republicans ran a better candidate.
Thats for damn sure.   Daley didnt help his party,
but Humphreys people and Daley didnt break the law,
so thats somebody elses table.
As a matter of fact, we dont believe any federal laws were broken last summer.
Mr. Foran had our office run a thorough investigation.
There was trespassing, destruction of public property, lewd behavior.
Nothing that would rise to the level
You think you and your boss are in the attorney generals office
because I want you to seek an indictment for violating a federal trespassing law?
Our office wasnt aware that the Justice Department
wanted to seek any indictments at all.
We do.   Ramsey Clark was dead set against
Ramsey Clark doesnt run the Justice Department anymore,
did you hear about that?
And Mr. Johnsons back home in Texas.   Of course, sir.
One hour before my confirmation hearing gaveled,
thats when he resigned. What a prick!
Thats unprofessional.
Unprofessional? It was unpatriotic. Ill tell you what else.
It was impolite. Theres such a thing as manners.
I want to bring back manners. How about that? The America I grew up in.
Will you help me, Mr. Schultz?
Cause I asked Mr. Foran who was the best prosecutor in his office.
He said you.   Thank you.
Section 2101 of Title 18.
Thats the federal law that was broken.
Thats the Rap Brown Law.
In conspiracy to cross state lines in order to incite violence.
Comes with a maximum of ten years. We want all ten.
For whom, sir?   The allstar team.
Abbie Hoffman, Tom Hayden, Jerry Rubin, David Dellinger, Rennie Davis,
‎Lee Weiner, John Froines and Bobby Seale?
I call em the school boys, and when I do, everyone here knows who Im talking about.
Petulant and dangerous.
And we watched for a decade while these rebels without a job,
who never got their hands dirty fighting the enemy,
tell us how to prosecute a war.
The decades over, the grownups are back, and I deem these shitty little fairies
to be a threat to national security.
So theyre gonna spend their thirties in a federal facility.
Realtime.   Youre lead prosecutor, Richard.
You understand why I couldnt tell you until we got here?
Sure. Of course, sir.
Richard, youre being handed the ball. Are you ready for this?
You pay me for my opinion.
What?   I said, sir, you pay me for my opinion.
Whered you learn that? In class? I pay you to win.
Im not sure we can get a good indictment on conspiracy.
Why not?   Some of them have never met each other.
Telephones.
Mr. Attorney General, the Rap Brown Law was created by Southern whites in Congress
to limit the free speech of Black activists.
Civil rights activists   I know why it was passed.
‎Why the fuck is he teaching
It doesnt matter why it was passed. It matters what it can do.
Were not sure what it can do.
No ones ever been charged with it.   That makes it exciting.
Its like virgin land. Undeveloped real estate.
Its a law and they broke it.   Of course, sir.
Is there a problem?   No, sir.
Say what you want to say, since Im paying for your wisdom. Give me my moneys worth.
Sir, there are people who will see this
as the Justice Department restraining free speech
and there were people who see these men as martyrs.
Are any of those people in this room?   No, sir.
Youre 33 and youre about to be named lead prosecutor
in the most important trial in your lifetime
after being handpicked by the attorney general.
Im about to do that right now.
But before I do, let me ask you, how do you see them?
Personally or in terms of   Personally.
I see them as vulgar, antiestablishment,
antisocial and unpragmatic, but none of those things are indictable.
Imagine how impressed Ill be when you get an indictment.
Theres a bigger question.   Which is?
Who started the riots? Was it the protesters or the police?
The police dont start riots.   Theyll have witnesses who say they did.
And youll dismantle them and win,
because, Mr. Schultz, thats whats expected of you.
You didnt show a lot of gratitude in there.
On top of everything, were giving them what they want: a stage and an audience.
You think theres gonna be a big audience?
The whole world is watching!
Yes, sir, I do.
The whole world is watching!
The whole world is watching!
Get out! How dare you? Get out!
Abbie!   Are you all right?
Abbie, over here.
I was, until I saw that.   Most of them are on our side.
We love you, Abbie!   See?
Watch out!
Jesus Christ! How did you do that?
Experience.
Abbie, right over here! Over here! Over here!
You dont know what to do with the egg now?
No.
Mr. Kunstler, one question!   Bill! Bill!
All right. Hang on. Quiet down.
I want you all to meet a new addition to the defense team.
This is Leonard Weinglass,
one of this countrys most talented First Amendment litigators.
Bill, can you tell us   Go ahead, Sy.
Whats the status of Charles Garry?
Charles Garry is still in the hospital.
You should contact his office for information.
One more.   Marjorie.
Youre representing Bobby Seale today?
Oh, no, its very important that it be understood that, uh,
for his own protection, his own protection,
I will not be acting as Bobby Seales attorney today.
One more. Jack.
I was told that Hayden was the one who wanted to bring Mr. Weinglass in,
that Hayden has concerns about your seriousness.
‎Well   This is William Kunstler.
You wanna find out how serious he is, meet him at a witness stand.
I understand why theyre tryin to smoke Abbie, Jerry and Hayden,
even Rennie and Dellinger,
but I cant figure out what the two of us are doin here.
I feel exactly the same way, but this is the Academy Awards of protests,
and as far as Im concerned, its an honor just to be nominated.
What is that?
Ive been keeping a list every day.
Americans whove been killed since the day we were arrested.
Why?
With the trial starting, it might get easy to forget who this is about.
Fellas.   Morning.
Good morning.
I just got a question about my seriousness.
Whatevers going on between you and Abbie, could you keep it out of this building?
‎I got a feeling this is gearing up to be
Fred.   Bill.
Did you have breakfast this morning?
What?   Did you have breakfast?
I did.   Well, whatd you have?
What are you doin?
Im talkin to him about breakfast
because thats all Im allowed to talk to him about.
Thats right.
Bobby   We have instructions from our lawyer.
If you need me, Im sittin right there.
You just look at me and you say, I need you.
We dont need you, Bill.   You two gonna be like this?
Your friends shouldnt sit together. The jurys not gonna like that.
This isnt my jury. If they dont like it
No, hes right.
Spread out, okay? In pairs.
And Fred?
No, theyre dressed just fine.   Its all right.
And take your very scary hats off.
Dont mess this up.
All right. Good pep talk.
Hey!
You see the crowd out there?
I have an egg.
Get rid of that.   You dont think I want to?
‎Its like were Whats his name? We just met him.
Yeah.   What is his name?
Who?   The drummer. The greatest drummer ever.
Gene Krupa?
No. Gene Krupa? Im talkin about the drummer from Cream.
We just met him last night.
Ginger Baker.   Thank you.
Crowd outside is so big, its as if were Ginger Baker, I was trying to say.
Are you stoned?   Yeah. You?
All right, sit down.
You remember what I said.
Okay, and you remember to keep us out of prison.
Theres a lot of good advice this morning.
All rise.
Hear ye, hear ye. September 26th, 1969, ten oclock a.m.
All persons having business before the United States District Court
of Northern Illinois, Southern District, Eastern Division,
draw near and ye shall be heard.
Judge Julius Hoffman presiding.
God save the United States of America and this Honorable Court.
Be seated.
Mr. Marshal, bring in our jury.
Let the record show that we have been joined
by our 12 jurors and four alternates.
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
Good morning.
Mrs. Winter, please call the case.
69 CR 180,
United States of America v. David Dellinger,
Rennard C. Davis, Thomas Hayden,
Abbott Hoffman, Jerry C. Rubin,
Lee Weiner, John R. Froines and Bobby G. Seale for trial.
Are the People ready to make opening arguments?
We are, Your Honor.
I dont have my lawyer here.   Its not your turn to speak.
My trials begun without my lawyer.
Please sit.
Mr. Schultz?
Good morning. My name is Richard Schultz.
Im an assistant US attorney for the Southern District of Illinois.
Seated at my table is my boss, US Attorney Thomas Foran.
Or you could say, Im seated at his table.
At the defense table are the eight defendants
represented by their lawyers William Kunstler, Leonard Weinglass.
Now, the defendants would tell you that they represent three different groups.
They would tell you that one group is   Excuse me.
Yes, sir.
Id like to clarify something for the jurors.
There are two Hoffmans in this courtroom.
The defendant Abbie Hoffman and myself, Judge Julius Hoffman.
Thank you, sir.
I didnt want there to be confusion on the matter.
Man, I dont think theyre gonna mix us up.
You will address this court as Judge or Your Honor,
‎and you will not address this court until
You will not address this court!
The defendants would tell you they represent three different groups.
And the record should reflect
that defendant Hoffman and I are not related.
Father, no!
Mr. Hoffman, are you familiar with contempt of court?
Its practically a religion for me, sir.
Your Honor?   Continue.
Rennie Davis and Tom Hayden are the leaders of the SDS, Students for a Democratic Society.
Davis and Hayden brought their people to Chicago
for the purpose of causing violence in the streets
in order to disrupt the Democratic Convention.
You know the Youth International Party as the Yippies.
Their leaders are Abbie Hoffman and Jerry Rubin.
Bobby Seale is the leader of the Black Panther Party.
Again, the defendants would tell you that these are three distinct groups.
But they all   Excuse me.
Yes.
May I speak?   No, sir.
He just said my name.
Youre a defendant in this case. Youre likely to hear your name.
I have a right to counsel, and His Honor knows that.
Dont tell the court what it does and does not know. Be seated.
Mr. Schultz.
The radical left. Thats all.
Theyre the radical left in different costumes.
These defendants had a plan,
and a plan among two or more people is a conspiracy.
The defendants crossed state lines to execute their plan.
Thats why were in federal court, and the plan was to incite a riot,
and theres one thing you already know.
They succeeded.
Excuse me. Have we identified the other defendants for the record?
‎A Mr Wiener.
Weiner.
Mr. Froines and Mr. Dillinger.
Dellinger, Your Honor.
Whats going on here?
Uh, youre referring to the defendant Dellinger.
Derringer.
Um, its Dellinger, sir.
Note the prosecution was referring to the defendant Derringer.
Not Dellinger.   It is Dellinger, Your Honor.
Can we straighten this out?
Sure. Dillinger was a bank robber.
Derringer is a gun.
Hes David Dellinger, and the judge and I are not related.
Your Honor, Id like to caution the court that this kind of disruption
and display of disrespect will be a continuing tactic for defense.
Sir, its not a tactic.
At the moment, the defendants are the only ones on record as knowing their own names.
‎Be seated, Mr. Schultz
Uh, Mr. Kunstler.
I object to being characterized as a member of this group.
Who is your lawyer?   Charles R. Garry.
Is Mr. Garry here today?
No, he is not.   Your Honor
Are you representing Mr. Seale?
No, sir.   Then, sit.
Mr. Schultz, forgive me.
Have you concluded your opening statement?
Yes, Your Honor.
My lawyer Charles Garry is in a hospital in Oakland
having undergone gallbladder surgery.   Mr. Kunstler.
You are sitting right next to the man.
Just represent him. Its the same case.
The fact that theres a lawyer near Mr. Seale
does not satisfy the requirements of due process.
I have a right
A motion was made for postponement due to Mr. Garrys medical condition.
I was there. Your Honor denied that motion.
Therefore, Mr. Seale is here without legal representation.
I dont care for your general tone, Mr. Kunstler.
I meant no disrespect to the court.
Im trying to be clear that I cant muddy Mr. Seales grounds for appeal
by appearing to speak as his lawyer.
I dont ask you to compromise Mr. Seales position, sir.
But I will not permit him to address the jury
when his perfectly competent lawyer is sitting
For the fourth time, hes not Bobbys lawyer.
‎Youre, uh Mr. Rubin.
Yes, sir.
Dont ever do that again!
Your Honor, Im not with these guys.
I never met most of them until the indictment.
We will have order.   There are eight of us here.
There are signs out there that read, Free the Chicago 7. Im not with them!
Mr. Marshal,   Conspiracy?
will you seat Mr. Seale?   I never met most of them.
Frankly, the US attorney wanted a Negro defendant to scare the jury.
I was thrown in to make the group look scarier.
I came to Chicago. I made a speech!
Mr. Seale   I had a chicken pot pie,
went to the airport and I flew back to Oakland,
‎thats why they call it the Chicago Get your hands off me!
Charge Mr. Seale with one count of contempt of court.
We have to make a decision right now,
a decision I assumed wed already made four months ago when trial prep began.
Are we using this trial to defend ourselves against very serious charges
that could land us in prison for ten years?
Or to say a pointless fuck you to the establishment?
‎Fuck you!   That is what I was afraid
Were you saying fuck you or answering   I was also confused.
If we leave without saying anything about why we came in the first place,
itll be heartbreaking.
If the jury finds us guilty, were not leaving at all.
The only thing we need to say about why we came here
is it wasnt to incite violence.
Im with Jerry.
Why?   The trial shouldnt be about us.
I would love it if it wasnt about us, but it definitely is. John? Lee?
Does anyone think our judge is crazy?
He isnt our problem.   Give it time. He will be.
Im talking about us. Abbie, you cannot talk back to the judge.
‎And, Jerry Jesus!
Did you get a haircut just for court?
I did.   A haircut for the judge.
‎That is
‎I cant even. That is
That is so foreign to me.
So is soap.   Zing.
Let me explain something. It took you two less than five minutes
to make us look exactly like what Schultz is trying to make us look like.
I dont have a problem with what we look like.
Jerry likes what we look like. Uh, John?
Lee?   Yeah.
I feel like Im ten pounds too heavy.   I dont like it when we fight.
Rennie?   Tom should be heard.
And he was.
When we walked in here, they were chanting that the whole world is watching.
This is it. Were on.
This is what revolution looks like. Real revolution. Cultural revolution.
Why did you come here?
I got an invitation from a grand jury.
Last summer. Why did you come to the convention?
To end the war.
Guys, before you tether yourselves to this man,
just know the very last thing he wants is for the war to end.
I dont have time for cultural revolution. It distracts from actual revolution.
All right, all right, all right.
But you got time for a haircut.
Has everybody got everything off their chest?
What in the name of hell was that?
Evidently not.
You spoke for Bobby.
I made it very clear that Im not his lawyer.
Id like to sit in on these meetings.   You cant.
I think I will anyway.   Fred
Bobbys life is at stake. Youre playing to the crowd.
Thank you.   Shut up.
White guys sitting in a furnished room eating sandwiches while Bobbys in a cell.
White guys are free on bail.
Bobbys locked up because hes under arrest in Connecticut for killing a cop.
Its not like he refused to give up his seat on a bus.
Convince him to let Bill and me represent him, just for today, at least.
The judge is   Fucking nuts.
A little hostile. Im sure Garry didnt anticipate that.
Hes innocent in Connecticut.
All right.   Hes never killed anyone.
Its important that you all know that.   Okay.
All right, you gotta try to convince him.
I cant.
Well, try.   I have!
Well, keep trying, all right?
Were back.
Lets go.
Jerry, Abbie, unless youre asked a direct question,
I want you to keep your mouths shut in that room.
This is a political trial.   What?
This is a political trial that was already decided for us.
Ignoring that reality is just weird to me.
There are civil trials and there are criminal trials.
Theres no such thing as a political trial.
Okay.
Abbies smarter than you think he is.
Cows are smarter than I think he is.
STAHL.   What is your occupation?
I am the mayors administrative officer.
Calling your attention to March 26, 1968. Did you have a meeting on that day?
Yes.   Uh, with whom?
Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Rubin, is it?   Abbie and Jerry is fine.
What was said at that meeting?
I was told the Youth International Party would be holding a festival of life
during the Democratic National Convention.
There would be thousands of young people attending and thered be rock bands playing in the park.
Music will be performed.
Rock music?   I would think.
They also said there would be public fornication.
Say that again, sir?
Public fornication.
Youre asking for a Parks permit for public
Yeah.   And rock music.
No, of course not.
What if it was R&amp;B?
Did you issue the permits?   No, I did not.
And what, if anything, did Abbie Hoffman say when you denied their request?
Mr. Stahl, you need to understand something.
Theres gonna be a festival of life in Grant Park held during the convention.
Bands will play rock music. There will be public fornication.
Likely some of it with the wives and mistresses of delegates.
Psychedelic, longhaired leftists will consort with dope users.
And well insist that the next president of the US
stops sending our friends to be slaughtered.
This will happen whether you give us the permit or not.
Hotels will be filled with delegates. Where will people sleep?
Some will sleep in tents, others will live frivolously.
How many people are coming?   A lot.
Whats a lot? A thousand? Two thousand?
Ten thousand.
Jesus Christ.   Right?
Did Abbie Hoffman add anything at the end of the meeting?
Yes.
‎What did he say?   He said
Or you give me 100 grand and I could call the whole thing off.
Thank you.
Mr. Fineglass.
Uh, Weinglass, sir.
Mr. Stahl, the meeting you just described with Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Rubin,
was that the only meeting you had with any of the defendants?
No.
On August 2nd, you had a meeting with Tom Hayden and Rennie Davis.
Tom Hayden.   Rennie Davis.
On August 12th, you had a meeting with David Dellinger.
Ill tell you the same thing I told the others.
There were two more meetings with Tom and Rennie
on the 10th and 12th of August,
and one more meeting with David Dellinger on the 26th.
I cant be sure of the dates.
Well, I can be sure. Theyre recorded in the log at City Hall.
‎Okay
And in each of the meetings, a request was made for a permit
to demonstrate in Grant Park during the convention.
Mr. Stahl, we intend a peaceful demonstration.
Were not interested in violence or disturbing the delegates.
And in each of the meetings, the request for permits was denied.
Listen, Ill tell you the same thing I told Mr. Hoffman
and Mr. Rubin and Mr. Dellinger.
No demonstrations within sight of the Hilton.
We have to demonstrate there. Thats where the convention is.
There will be no demonstrations within sight of the Hilton.
Okay. But the thing is, there will be.
Are you threatening me, Mr. Hayden?   No.
Were not threatening you. Were cautioning you.
Thousands of people are coming to Chicago.
If theyre not given a place to demonstrate, theyll demonstrate wherever they stand.
So its reckless, irresponsible, and foolishly dangerous of the city not to have a contingency plan.
‎Were gonna need police security, first aid
Traffic control.   Water, sanitation.
So, five times, you were asked for a permit.
Five times, you were advised of the dangers of not providing a location to demonstrate
I dont take my instructions from the defendants.
No, you dont.   I dont.
You take them from Mayor Daley.
Youre appointed by the mayor and you serve at his pleasure?
Yes.
And youre subject to removal in the same manner by the mayor?
Yes.   Thank you.
Further crossexamination, Mr. Kunstler.
Yes, sir. Mr. Stahl. When Abbie
Excuse me.
Mr. Seale, would you identify the man sitting behind you?
No, sir.   No?
Thats right.   Why not?
Hes not on trial here.
Mr. Seale, identify the man behind you.
His name is Fred Hampton.
Let the record indicate
that Mr. Hampton is head of the Chicago chapter of the Black Panther Party.
Your Honor, Mr. Hampton isnt at the bar. Why is the record identifying him at all?
Mr. Hampton is clearly giving Mr. Seale legal advice.
My lawyer is Charles Garry.
Excuse me, sir, but for all you know,
Mr. Hampton is giving Mr. Seale the score of the White Sox game.
I will assume that he is not.   Why?
Because thats what happens when you dont have a lawyer.
The court assumes that you are being represented
by the Black Panther sitting behind you.
Continue.
Mr. Stahl, when Abbie offered to call the whole thing off for $100,000,
did you think that he was serious or did you think he was making a joke?
I had no reason not to think he was serious.
Really? Do you know what extortion is?   Yes.
Do you know its a felony?   Yes.
Okay. So, when you called the FBI
and told em about Mr. Hoffmans attempt to extort a government employee,
whatd they say?   I didnt call the FBI.
Sorry. When you called the US attorney and reported attempted extortion,
whatd their office say?   I didnt call the US att
Cooke County DA. Did you call them?   No, sir.
The chief of police?   Mr. Kunstler
The police officer posted outside the mayors office?
How about the mayor? Mr. Stahl, Im gonna ask you again.
When Abbie Hoffman asked for $100,000 to call the whole thing off,
did you think that he was serious or did you know that he was making a joke?
I had no reason not to believe he was serious.
Then, along with extortion, did you know that perjury is a crime?
Objection.   Sustained, and strike it. In fact,
strike the entirety of Mr. Stahls testimony under crossexamination,
and the jury is instructed to disregard it.
Youre gonna strike the entire crossexamination?
I gave you and cocounsel Fineglass ample
Cocounsels name is Weinglass.
Mr. Stahls testimony under crossexamination is entirely
You are interrupting the court again, Mr. Kunstler.
Move to reinstate testimony.
Overruled.   Overruled.
Overruled.   Exception.
Noted. Are there any further questions?
Yes. So, Mr. Stahl, in any of these meetings,
did any of the defendants say that if you didnt grant them permits,
that they would do violent acts to the city?
Yes, they said the Parks permit should be issued in order to minimize destruction.
Did they indicate from whom this destruction would come?
The destruction did not come from the Chicago Police Department,
if thats what youre suggesting.
No further questions.
Id like to crossexamine the witness, Your Honor.
You may not.   Have you met me?
Sit, Mr. Seale.
Are you guilty of conspiracy?
We believe that we are innocent.
The people who are guilty of conspiracy are the fuckers who put us on trial.
They are responsible for the bloodshed that flowed in the streets of Chicago.
Why wont Bobby Seale let anyone represent him?
Youve posed that question in the form of a lie.
Conspiracy Office. Can you hold on?
Conspiracy Office. Can you hold on?
Conspiracy Office. Can you hold on?
Maybe you dont want to call it the, uh, Conspiracy Office.
They understand irony and appreciate the humor.
I wouldnt count on it.   Most people are smart, Bill.
If you believe that, youll get your heart broken every day of your life.
Hang on. Hi, how can I help you?
Messages?
We sure do take contributions. Weve got highpriced lawyers.
Highpriced lawyers are working for free.
Its the support staff.   We cant take grass.
Hey!   Yeah.
Abbie says well take the weed.   Messages?
Let me give you our mailing address.
We are in Hyde Park,
‎28 East Jackson Street, Chicago, Illinois. 60604
I dont want you guys holding any more press conferences.
If youre gonna get between Abbie and a camera, Id wear pads and a helmet.
We had a good day, Len. Tell him we had a good day.
Six and eleven.
Yeah.   What does that mean?
Jurors six and eleven. Theyre with us.
How do you know?
Six made sure I saw a copy of a James Baldwin novel under her arm,
and elevens been nodding during the Stahl cross.
Falling asleep?
Nodding. Agreeing.
No more press conferences.
Why wont Bobby Seale let anyone represent him?
You posed that question in the form of a lie.
Bobby Seales lawyer is Charles Garry. Hes in the hospital right now.
A motion was made for postponement and it was denied.
Would you have taken $100,000 to call it off?
Yeah, sure. I would have taken $100,000.
‎As for calling it off
How much is it worth to you? Whats your price?
To call off the revolution?
Whats your price?
My life.
Any idea whats going on?
Its been years since Ive had any idea what was going on.
Im going to adjourn the court for the day
and see counsel in my chambers in 15 minutes.
All rise.
Gentlemen, its been brought to my attention
that two jurors received threatening notes
from a member or members of the Black Panther Party.
Which two jurors?
Juror number six and juror number eleven.
These were slipped into the mail at the homes of their parents.
Bring in juror six.
Six and eleven?
Yes.   Judge, I wonder if we could draw
Juror number six, how are you?
Im fine.
Before we talk   Please.
Your parents received this note this morning in their mail.
They called the police, as they should have done.
Id like you to take the note and read it out loud.
My parents?
Your Honor, before she   Please read the note.
Were watching you.
And you see who signed it?
The Panthers.
You understand that to mean the Black Panthers, dont you?
You understand defendant Bobby Seale is the head of the Black Panthers.
Judge, you cant
Hes chairman of the Black Panther Party. Do you still feel that you can render a fair and impartial verdict?
Juror number six, your family has been threatened
‎and so have you
by members of an organization that is led by one of the defendants.
‎Judge, for the love of Christ, she
I apologize, Your Honor.   I would think so.
Do you still feel you can render a fair and impartial verdict?
No, sir.
Youre dismissed from this jury. Thank you for your service.
Please bring in juror number eleven.
Im sorry.   Keep reading James Baldwin.
Bill, I thought the Panthers were smarter than that.
They are.   Well
The Panthers dont write letters any more than the Mob does.
The moment I find out that it was your office that did,
youll see the criminal justice system up closer than you ever wanted to.
Who are the alternates?   Were gonna make this public.
Help yourself.   Who are they?
Somebody other than the FBI has to investigate that letter.
Whod you have in mind? Jefferson Airplane?
The FBI investigates.   This is bullshit.
Who are the alternates?
Fucking bullshit.   Clean up the language.
Kay Richards. 42yearold dental hygienist.
That doesnt sound bad.
We think shes dating a guy named Tom Banachek, who works for Daley.
We were out of peremptory challenges.   How did this happen?
Its either her or that Korean War vet
who kicked his son out of the house for protesting the Vietnam.
‎You dont have to be Clarence Darrow
Did they manipulate the jury pool? How come theres nobody who looks like me?
All right, raise your hands if any of you have ever shown up for jury duty.
No? Then shut the fuck up.
‎Bill
Yeah? What?
Hes sequestering the jury.
Of course he is.
No such thing as a political trial.
Good to know.
‎I
I want an expert in geriatric psychiatry sitting in the gallery for a few days.
‎I want a medical evaluation of this this judge.
The sequesters probably a reaction to Abbie doing standup on weekends.
Its not standup.
Youre in a college auditorium in a spotlight telling jokes.
Thats a little reductive.
Names?
Yeah. From yesterday.
You hungry?
If I hadnt asked you to help me with Sara Beth,
none of this would have happened.   No.
I asked you to help with Sara Beth. That got us the first riot.
The first riot got us the real riot.
Thats not   Hang on.
‎Anyway, Im telling stories. I always
Ill add the names.
Thank you.
We move to strike the order for sequestration of the jury,
which was made by Your Honor, sua sponte motion
Hold on.
Mr. Rubin, Mr. Hoffman.
What are you wearing?
Its an homage to you, Your Honor.
Do you have clothes underneath there?
Yes. Hold on.
Yes.   Take off the robes, please.
Silence!
Bailiff, charge Mr. Rubin and Mr. Hoffman with one count of contempt.
Mr. Kunstler, continue.
We feel that sequestration,
for what appears will be a considerable period of time, can only
It would be a considerably shorter period if the defense made fewer objections.
‎can only serve to the defendants disadvantage.
The defense will make not one fewer objection than the prosecution
or this court gives us reason to.
Bailiff, charge Mr. Kunstler with one count of contempt.
May I continue my argument so it appears in the record?
You may continue.
The jury will be in the custody of the deputy marshals.
The marshals will take care of all the needs and wants of the jury.
We feel that that tends to make the jurors sympathetic.
‎The jury are gonna be taken care of
Paul Deluca.   And what is your occupation?
Im a detective with the police department, City of Chicago.
Calling your attention to August of 1968 during the convention,
did you have a specific assignment?
To keep Rennie Davis under surveillance with my partner, Detective Bell.
While you were surveilling Rennie Davis on the evening of Sunday, August 25th,
the night before the convention began,
did you observe Tom Hayden committing a crime?
Yes, Mr. Hayden was letting the air out of the tire of a police vehicle.
The park closes at 11:00 p.m. by order of the Chicago PD.
You must be out of the park by 11:00 p.m.
Violators will be prosecuted for trespassing.
I repeat, you must be out of the park.
Its a strategy of throwin banana peels all over Chicago,
and the machine will stumble.
When it stumbles, it goes into a policy of overkill
and it starts to devour itself.
We gotta convince em.
We gotta convince em of what? That were crazy enough to do anything.
We think its important
for confrontational tactical knowledge to be understood.
You know it!
Right, confrontational tactics make us safer.
Yeah.   Right.
Why? Because the pigs become afraid.
You know, and thats fighting fire with what?
Fire!
You dont fight fire with fire. You fight it with water, jackass.
Its a metaphor.   Abbie and his fuckin banana peels?
Also a metaphor.
Between the cops, the state police and the Guard,
Daleys got 15,000 soldiers whose guns are loaded with bullets that are literal.
I could argue that the bullets are also
Yeah, so could I, but dont.
The atmospheres getting dangerous and someones gonna throw a rock.
I wanna get the word out were protesting the war and not the cops.
Damn it!   What?
I think those are my guys.
I think thats their car.
Yep, thats them. Theyre back. They were following me all day.
Listen, heres the thing I havent told you about Sara Beth.
She isnt into this at all.   Isnt into what?
‎When Im with her and her family, I try to
‎I deemphasize the
radical revolutionary part of my   Got it.
Her parents are letting me stay with them.
If I show up tailed by two undercover police officers
Thatll be hard to explain.   This isnt her world.
Its definitely not her parents world.
If I bring my world into their driveway   You could be in a healthier relationship.
I know, but until then, its the one I got.
So thats their car?   Yep.
Where are they?   Looking for me.
All right, go back into the crowd and let em find you.
And then leave the park by the east exit.
Theyll need their car to follow you.   What are you gonna do?
It wont remind anyone of Gandhi, but a little civil disobedience. Go.
Youre not gonna cut the brakes   Ill let the air out of a tire. Go.
I appreciate it. I dont wanna be a phony with Sara
Youre welcome. You should really go now.   Yep.
Detective Bell and I spotted Rennie Davis walking in the crowd,
and we observed him on foot for a few minutes.
Then we returned to the unit.
Your car?   Yes.
What did you find?
Dont fuckin move.   On your feet.
Those are two contradictory instructions
All right, hands behind your head.
Spread your legs.
Was that a contradictory instruction?
No.
‎What happened then?   Someone from the crowd shouted
Theyre hassling Tom Hayden!   Paulie, you need to see what Im seeing.
Hey! Stay back there! All of ya!   Police! Stay back!
Listen, everybody stay cool.   Shut up. All right, tell em to get back.
Again, thats a contradict   Tell em to get back.
Did he tell the crowd to back down?
Everybody get back. Im all right. Stay cool.
He was egging them on.
Did you take Mr. Hayden under arrest at that moment?
No, sir.   Why not?
Whos shinin that?
Paulie, its a camera. Its a TV camera.
We wanted to defuse the situation,
so we arranged to take Mr. Hayden in the next morning.
This is gonna be for me.
Let me try to explain to them.
Tell em about Sara Beths parents.
Yeah.   I was kidding.
Just bail me out and keep to the schedule. Its fine.
Tom Hayden?   Yeah.
See you in a bit.   Youre under arrest.
Got it.
Well stand in recess for one hour, and court will resume at 1:30
Your Honor, I have a motion Id like to bring forward.
You wish to address the court, Mr. Seale?
Yes. I have a motion
I will hear you, Mr. Seale.
Just a moment.
Mr. Seale, do you have a motion?
I, Bobby G. Seale, have a motion pro se to defend myself.
Id like to invoke the precedent of Adams v. US ex rel. McCann,
where the Supreme Court is   Thats enough.
Where are you learning these things?
Does your young friend Mr. Hampton have a background in law?
Your Honor, the other defendants would like to join in Mr. Seales motion.
Are you now speaking on behalf of Mr. Seale?
No, Your Honor, Im speaking on behalf of the other defendants.
Youre right next to him. Why dont you represent him?
Because Im not his lawyer, sir.
And if I understand Mr. Seale, this last month and a half,
and I believe I have,
he is not represented by counsel.   Overruled.
‎I am being denied right now   Mr. Seale
‎my constitutional right for legal representation
Will you be quiet!
You have lawyers to speak for you.
No, he doesnt!
Cite Mr. Kunstler with his second count of contempt.
All rise.
So, Haydens in a holding cell on a tire pressurerelated charge,
and suddenly, every freak in Chicago is mobilized.
They got Hayden!
We gotta march down to the police station,
overcome the cops and the Illinois National Guard
and free Tom Hayden!
We couldnt find our way out of the park.
Now, over the course of ten days, the government called 37 witnesses,
each and every one of them an employee of the government.
I call this portion of the trial with friends like these.
Rennie, this is Sam. He can be trusted.
Detective Sam McGiven, Chicago Police Department.
Abbie, this is Stan.   Oh, hey.
Stan Wojohowski.   How you doin, Stan?
What is your occupation?   Im a Chicago police officer.
Scotty Scibelli, Tom.
Im your guy for ass, weed or whatever you need.
Staff Sergeant Scott Scibelli, Illinois State Police.
Its from the woman in the glasses.
Really?   Yeah.
Hey, uh, did you mean this for me?
I did.   Nobodys ever sent me a drink before.
How do you like it so far?   Its a Tom Collins.
I know its a country club drink, but theyre delicious.
A man in England named Tom Collins claimed in 1894 to have invented it,
but then another man, whose name Ive forgotten, said no,
hed invented it two years earlier, and I think there was a lawsuit.
Thats a surprising amount of controversy for gin and lemonade.
Im Jerry.   I know.
Jerry, do you know why the French only eat one egg for breakfast?
No.   Because in France,
‎one egg is un oeuf.
Its un oeuf.
Wow!   I know!
I feel so much better about my Tom Collins story.
Im Daphne OConnor.
Special Agent Daphne OConnor, FBI Counterintelligence.
Spell your name.
Think its possible there were seven demonstrators in Chicago last summer
leading 10,000 undercover cops in protest?
What was your assignment in Chicago?
To use Jerry Rubin to infiltrate the leaders of the protest.
And you were with Jerry Rubin, Abbie Hoffman, Dave Dellinger
and Rennie Davis on the afternoon of the 27th?
Yes.
What were they doing together?   They were leading a group of protesters.
How many, would you say?   About 800.
Where were they leading these 800 people?
To police headquarters at 11th and State.   Why?
Tom Hayden was being held there on charges of tampering with a police vehicle.
Jerry Rubin said it was time to confront the pigs.
‎And by pigs, he meant
It was time to confront the police.
Follow Abbie!
Marshals, were on the move.
I remember also at the front of the group was Mr. Allen Ginsberg.
Allen Ginsberg, the poet?
Yes, he was chanting a kind of war chant.
Whose street?   Our streets!
Whats he doing?
Hes channeling the energy. Settling things down.
And hows that workin so far?
Whose street?   Our streets!
Whose street?   Our streets!
The guy testified that Ginsberg was letting out a war chant,
some kinda fucking jungle signal to Beat poets,
that they should begin pelting the troops with blank verse.
So, a guy in the crowd is marching with a girl on his shoulders.
Shes waving an American flag,
and this seems to really be bothering some frat brothers
whod come to town in the spirit of fraternity.
Put down the flag!
Hey, put the flag down!
Can you hear us? Are you fucking deaf, you bitch?
Put the flag down!   Go to the kitchen and make me a sandwich!
Im gonna go back there and take care of that.
They are not the enemy.
In so many fuckin ways, they are.
Free Tom Hayden!
Free Tom Hayden!
The group turned left on 11th Street.
We make a left on 11th Street.
Thats when they saw it.
Free Tom Hayden!   Free Tom Hayden!
Holy shit!
Are they about to conquer Spain?
Fuck it.
What do you mean, Fuck it?
This is it. Its time.
Were not rushing the police.   Why the fuck not?
Well be critically injured.   Tom doesnt want anyone hurt.
Turn this crowd around. Theres too much momentum.
Turn em around and calm them down.   What are we doin?
Hes right. This is not safe. I know something about this. Come on.
Marshals, turn em around and slow em down.
Looks like the Alamo back here. Turn em around.
Bring em safely to the park.   We should be marching up to them.
I dont think theyll surrender, man.
Keep em movin. Dave and I are gonna stay and make Toms bail.
Back to the park!
I dont carry money, do you?
I do. Im a grown man.
Youre killin me, Allen. Youre goddamn killing me!
The marshals are spreading word that we gotta keep moving.
Go left on Roosevelt and back in the park, right?
When they got to the park, three divisions of police officers had moved in from the south.
I dont know what tactical genius came up with that,
but you know when shit happens?
When you dont give protesters a place to go.
How would you characterize the mood of the crowd?
The witness is in no position to characterize the mood of 1,000 strangers.
Do you have an objection?
Yes, sir.   On what grounds?
On those grounds.
Overruled.
I will clear this courtroom.
Mr. Wojohowski?
The crowd was looking for a fight.
Youre pigs! Your children are pigs!
No, we should leave their children out of it.
Youre right. I know.
White honky MFers, get out of our park.
And then he said, Look at em.
They dont look so tough.
‎Well, the guns
There are no permits for this demonstration.
Youre ordered to leave the park, immediately!
Put down your guns, motherfuckers!
Fight like fuckin men!
Just so you know, I do not have your back on that.
And the guys from Kappa Gamma Douchebag, who were hassling the girl?
Theyre back.
Put down the goddamn flag, you cunt!
Go make me a sandwich!   Put it down!
Put the flag down!   Calm down!
Help me calm em down, Jerry!
Baby, defuse the situation. They will listen to you.
What?
Nothing, that sounded nice when you said it.
Right now!   Yeah.
‎Someone from the crowd shouts   A guy in the crowd shouts
‎Someone in the crowd shouted
Take the hill!
Hey! Stop running! Hey, everybody!
The street name for chloroacetophenone is tear gas.
Fire!
And its a fuckin blowtorch.
‎Your lungs, your skin, your eyes
Go, go!   Riot clubs?
Theyre made out of the same wood they use for baseball bats.
Let me go!
Put the flag down!
Hey!   You shut your fuckin mouth!
What are you doing?
You got this coming!
What the fuck is wrong with you? Hey! Hey, get the fuck off of her!
Whats the matter with you?
Fuck you, hippie faggot!
Youre all right.
Youre okay. Here.
You gotta just hold this over your face, okay?
Im gonna take you to the firstaid station.
Youre all right. I got you.
‎We have to go. Okay, Im gonna get you out of here. Im gonna
Dont move, Jerry.
Man, get those guys. They were   Youre under arrest.
Everybody gather in the center of the park
After bailing out Tom Hayden,
Abbie, Dave and Tom returned to the park. Is that correct?
Sir, can you look at me? Sir?
Get in.
Ill be honest. I was starting to worry about getting everyone out of Chicago alive.
Thats not really up to us.   Yeah, it is.
What are you lookin at me for? I went to bail you out.
800 people followed you?
Oh, that. Yeah, people follow me. Hell if I know why.
Im racking my brain as well.
Howd you make bail so fast?
I wasnt arrested, I was detained.
They couldnt figure out what to charge me with.
Assault.
I was assaulting someone who was assaulting someone.
So   Okay, guys.
Nothing is more dangerous than a crowd of people moving.
Its like trying to redirect the Mississippi River.
Isnt she great?   Get your people to cool off.
Were responsible for these people.   Tommy.
We have to protest in front of the convention.
Plain and simple. Cause thats where the cameras are.
We have to get to the convention. That means we have to leave the park.
And thats when peoplell get hurt.
As long as every person following me knows that, then I sleep fine at night.
Tell me how you do it.
A lot of it is drugs.   Yeah?
This is what happened when we try to go up a hill.
Were not getting anywhere near the convention.
Special Agent OConnor, you testified that Jerry Rubin said,
Fuck em all. Theyre all pigs. We should form an army and get guns.
Yes.
And when he said that, did anyone form an army and get guns?
No.
Did Jerry Rubin instruct the crowd to run into the park?
No.   Did Rennie Davis?
No.   Was Abbie Hoffman even there?
No.   Was Dave Dellinger?
No.   John Froines there?
No.   Lee Weiner?
No, he wasnt there.
‎You testified that Jerry and Rennie
Can you say it for me again?
That they were trying to turn the people around
and send them back down the hill just like you told them to.
Is that correct?
Mr. Kunstler, the demonstrators attacked the police
and the police responded.
And are any of those demonstrators that you saw attacking the police
sitting here at the defense table?
No, sir.   Well, thank you.
No further questions.
The court will stand   I wasnt there, either.
Mr. Seale   I wasnt there at all.
I should be allowed to crossexamine this witness!
We will stand in recess until   Four hours!
Mr. Hampton!
Thats how long Bobby Seale was in Chicago.
Quiet!   Four hours!
All rise.
The court will stand in recess for the weekend.
Yeah, I took in the exhibit.
I cleared my mind.
Stood there for 20 minutes. I felt nothing.
Well, but it wasnt a painting, it was an exhibit.
It was a natural history museum.
And when you put exhibits of Native Indian families
in a natural history museum
alongside dioramas of early man and the Jurassic age,
it gives the impression that the Cherokee evolved into modernday Europeans.
Look who it is.
I got a bone to pick with that guy.
Hey, Counselor.
No colleges this weekend?   Winter break.
My audience went home to their parents.
Are these ladies related to you?
These are my daughters. This is Emily and Julie.
Your dads a good guy.
Thats coming from someone who hes trying hard to put in prison.
We shouldnt be talking without your lawyer.
Were all on the same team.
In a sense, I guess, but in a much truer sense, were not.
Girls, here, take this dollar
and go over to those musicians and put it in their hat, okay?
And heres a quarter. Go buy some of those candycoated peanuts
that your mom wont let you have. All right? Shh.
Sweet kids.   Thank you.
If your lawyer were here, Id tell you the windows closing for you to plead out.
Were not taking a fuckin deal. Would you stop?
I wish I could share Abbies sentiment that youre a good guy,
but Im afraid I cant.
Im sorry to hear that.
Sending Daphne OConnor to break my heart was way out of line.
Well, I dont work for the FBI,
but OConnor was one of many agents sent to gather intelligence
on what had been deemed a credible threat.
Fine. Then you bug our phones, you wire up a dope dealer. Be a man.
You dont send a woman to ensorcell me.   What?
It means to enchant.
Only to have her crush my soul.   How long did you two know each other?
Ninetythree hours. Couldve been a lifetime.
For a fruit fly. Enjoy your weekend.
Is that even ethical?
Arent there ethics rules?
Did she engage with you sexually?
Well, we were takin it slow.
Hes gonna be all right.
One egg is un oeuf?
They teach her that at the Academy?   Yep.
We dont have any beef with you.
We know youre doing your job and you dont think were criminals.
Im not sure where you get that info,
but I represent the People without passion or prejudice.
You think we were responsible?
You got the result you were looking for.
So did Nixon.
How bout that? See you Monday.
Does she ever mention me?
Conspiracy Office.
I need a second.
Somethings happened, Tom.
‎Bobby, uh
Fred Hampton was shot and killed last night.
There was a police raid, and there was a shootout.
And hes dead.
It took place between the hours of 4:00   I know.
You were told?   Yeah.
Im so sorry.
The seven of you, youve all got the same father, right?
Im talkin to you.
You all got the same father, right?
‎Cut your hair
dont be a fag, respect authority, respect America, respect me.
Your life, its a fuck you to your father, right?
A little?
Maybe.   Maybe.
And you can see how thats different from a rope on a tree?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He was shot in the shoulder first.
You cant aim a gun if youve been shot in the shoulder.
You cant squeeze the trigger.
Second shot was in his head.
Fred was executed.
Anything else?
No.
Calling your attention to the evening of the next day,
Tuesday, August 27th, were you in Grant Park?
Yes. There was a Free Huey Newton rally going on.
Recognize any of the speakers?   I heard Jerry Rubin give a speech.
Phil Ochs sang, and then Bobby Seale gave a speech.
I object to this testimony against me because I have been denied counsel.
We understand.
Do you recall any of Mr. Seales speech?
Yes. He said
I object to this mans   Quiet!
Go ahead.
May I refer to notes?   Yes.
He said, We must understand that as we go forth
‎to try to move the reprobate politicians
Your Honor   our cowardly Congress,
‎the jive, doublelip talking Nixon   Jive, doublelip, talking Nixon
Youre making me sound like one funky cat. Thank you, sir.
Last warning, Mr. Seale.
Did he say anything else?
He said, The revolution at this time
is directly connected to organized guns in force.
No more questions.
Jive, doublelip talking. Funky, funky cat.
Would the defense like to crossexamine the witness?
Yes. Im sittin here saying that I would like to crossexamine a witness.
Only lawyers can address a witness.   My lawyer is Charles Garry.
Im tired of hearing that.   Couldnt care less what youre tired of.
What did you say?
I said it would be impossible for me to care any less what you are tired of.
And I demand to crossexamine the witness.
Sit in your chair and be quiet.
And dont ever address this court in that manner again.
Are there any further questions?
Well stand in recess for one hour, and court will resume again
It was premeditated murder!   Yes, it was!
Fred Hampton was assassinated last night!   Marshals, put Mr. Seale
He wouldnt have been able to hold a gun!
When they publish the coroners report, ask about the bullet in his shoulder!
I strongly caution you, Mr. Seale.
I strongly caution
Oh, strongly fuck yourself!
Marshals, take that defendant into a room
and deal with him as he should be dealt with.
Let the record show that I tried, fairly and impartially.
I tried to get the defendant to sit on his own.
I ask you again, Mr. Seale,
and you may indicate by raising your head up and down,
or moving it from side to side,
if I have your assurance that you will not do anything to disrupt this trial,
if I allow you to resume proper order.
Do I have your assurance?
Mr. Schultz, call your next witness.
Mr. Schultz?
Your Honor, may we approach?
Can he breathe?
Can you breathe all right, Bobby?
Your Honor, our defendant is gagged and bound in an American courtroom.
He brought it on himself.
Are you insane?
Mr. Kunstler.
Love of God.
What do you want, Mr. Schultz? This is your sidebar.
The government would like to make a motion that Bobby Seale be separated
Wait, wait, wait   Sir, please.
A motion that Bobby Seale be separated from the rest of the defendants
and his case be declared a mistrial.
You want me to give him his mistrial?
Of course, because you took that Black guy and you made him a sympathetic character.
Mr. Kunstler, I have lived a very long time, sir.
And youre the first person ever
to suggest that I have discriminated against a Black man.
Then let the record show that I am the second.
Step back.
Im issuing an order declaring a mistrial as to the defendant Bobby G. Seale.
Mr. Seale, you are currently charged with 16 counts of contempt
for your repeated displays of disrespect,
and you have a pending homicide charge in Connecticut.
You are not home free, sir, and I doubt you ever will be.
We are adjourned until 10:00, Monday.
All rise.
Conspiracy Office, how can I help you?
No, sir. I am a white woman.
Yeah, Ive slept with several in my life so far, and on balance,
Id have to say it is better.
I think thats a big part of whats got you worked up.
Hang up the phone.
Its not so much that its bigger. Its just better.
Hang up the phone.
Was that a parting gift for Bobby?
No. That was just for me.
Why the fuck did you stand up?
It was a reflex.
He was respecting the institution.
I dont know what good it does to insult the judge in view of the jury, the press,
and Foran and Schultz, wholl recommend sentencing if were convicted.
Its a revolution, Tom. We may have to hurt somebodys feelings.
‎So, um
we have this list.
Maybe Monday morning, we could read the names into the record
as a way of saying   Saying what?
That whatever were facing, you know, its peanuts compared to what
Hes gonna sentence us. The judge decides what were facing.
It is a goddamn trial.   Political trial.
‎No, we were arrested The law doesnt recognize political trials.
No, we werent arrested. We were chosen.
Lee, John, have you guys asked yourselves what youre doing here?
Every day.
Youre a giveback.
They give the jury a couple of guys they can acquit
so they feel better about finding the rest of us guilty.
Lenny, am I wrong?
No.
Wait, so our role in history is that we made it easier to convict our friends?
Theyre gonna find us guilty if they just dont like you.
Thats why Bill wont put us on the stand.
I can take the stand. Im easier for them to like.
Im literally a Boy Scout troop leader.
Youre a conscientious objector.
A lot of people are conscientious objectors.
During World War II?
You sat out World War II. Even I wanna punch you.
We can talk about that.   Im looking forward to it.
I could take the stand.
Mr. Rubin, you ever taught a classroom how to make a bomb?
Man, eighth graders are taught how Oppenheimer made a bomb.
Not one you can build with materials from Woolworths.
You know whatd be ironic?
What?   I said, know what
He heard you. Hes asking what would be ironic.
I was gonna say if John Mitchell did all this just to get back at Ramsey Clark.
For what?   That thing, remember?
Outgoing cabinet members are supposed to resign,
but Ramsey Clark didnt tender his resignation till
I read Mitchell had a fit about that.   Yeah.
Did you read about that, Lenny?
Bill?
He was never even on our witness list.
Who?
‎The first witness you put on the stand   If this was a political trial
Bernadine.   Yeah.
I need my office to find Ramsey Clark.
And William Kunstler just showed up.
Len.
‎Maybe I dont know, does he have a Secret Service detail?
Nah, theyre here for us.
He was the attorney general. What do we do?
We just ring the doorbell?   Yeah, I guess so.
‎You wanna do it?   Just ring the damn
Good morning, Im Bill Kunstler. Mr. Clark is expecting us.
Come in.
Good morning.
Hes in his study at the end of the hall.
Can I get anyone coffee?
I tell you what, maam. That sounds great.
Nothing for me. Thank you.
At the end of the hall.
Mr. Hayden?
I read in the paper you were the only one who stood for the judge
after what he did to Bobby.
Uh, that was a mistake. It was just a reflex.
Tom?
Hey, Bill.
Ramsey Clark.
Pleased to meet you, sir.
This is Leonard Weinglass.
Mr. Weinglass.   And Tom Hayden.
Oh, I know who Tom Hayden is.
The FBI used to work for me.
Those two men, theyre senior deputies with the Justice Department.
Mr. Kelly and Mr. Ackerman.
I dont know why these men are here.   I invited them.
You invited them?
I dont want the appearance of impropriety.
There isnt any impropriety.
And now there are witnesses to that.
Sir, these men are gonna call  Schultz and Foran
as soon as were done.   Dont be ridiculous.
They already called Schultz and Foran.
And theyre gonna call John Mitchell as soon as were done here.
Go ahead, ask what you wanna ask.
In front of them?   Yeah.
All right.
Mr. Clark, while you were attorney general for President Johnson
was there ever any discussion with the White House
about seeking indictments against my clients?
He cant answer that.   Why not?
Its against the law.
Thats an overly broad interpretation of the law.
If youd like   Ill tell you what.
Weve dealt with jury tampering, wiretapping,
a defendant that was literally gagged,
and a judge whos been handing down rulings from the bench
that would be considered wrong in Honduras.
So Im a little less interested in the law than I was when this trial began.
Well, whether you like the law or not, as former AG, he is protected by it.
No, you are protected by it.
And with respect, sir, I can subpoena you.
Find a judge in this circuit who will sign that subpoena.
Hes right. And taking the stand voluntarily would be a big risk for me.
Well, again, with due respect, sir,
‎my clients take a much bigger risk when they
‎stand against an enormous power   What took you so long?
‎that they cant even see, and that
Im sorry. What took me so long to do what?
To realize Im your star witness.
‎We were remarking upon that ourselves   Bill
He cant testify.
Im in private practice now.
And if John Mitchell wants to cut me in half,
he can and he will.
‎You have to find some
‎Sir, you have to find some courage now
And   Find some courage? Yeah.
Yes. You have to find some courage and
Tom.
Thats what those two men came to tell me,
that if John Mitchell wants to cut me in half, he can and he will.
So I wanted them in the room when I said,
When do you want me in court?
Mr. Clark?
Im sorry?
Swear me in, Bill.
It is against the law for you to testify, Ramsey. It is as simple as that.
Its General Clark.
And arrest me or shut the fuck up.
Found some.
Your Honor, the People move to disallow this witness.
Im sure the defense anticipated that.
Code of federal regulations mandates
the disclosure of Justice Department materials
is prohibited without prior knowledge of the attorney general,
plainly meaning the sitting attorney general,
who is John Mitchell, who has denied his approval.
Judge, the rule refers only to very specific documents and information.
If the regulation were interpreted as Mr. Schultz is asking it to be,
nobody in the federal government
could ever testify in any trial after they left their job.
I think the government is at least justified
in asking the defense to demonstrate, by voir dire,
the testimony it expects to elicit from the witness.
Youd like us to question the witness, this witness,
outside the presence of the jury?
If I find any of the testimony relevant, Ill call the jury back in to hear it.
Take it or leave it, Mr. Kunstler.
Defense calls Ramsey Clark.
State your name.
William Ramsey Clark.
Do you swear the testimony you give
will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?
I do.
Mr. Clark, what was your occupation in the summer of 1968?
I was the attorney general of the United States.
You were appointed by President Johnson?   Yes.
Confirmed by the United States Senate.   Yes.
Now, did you receive a phone call at your office at 11:50 a.m.,
on September 10th of last year?
Yes.
And from whom was that call?   President Johnson.
Will you state what President Johnson said to you and what was said to him?
Your Honor, at this point, we will object.
A cabinet officer does not have to, and should not have to relate the contents
of a private call he had with the president.
Ill sustain the objection.
‎Please, the court This is voir dire.
I thought objections were reserved.
Theres a question of attorneyclient privilege to consider.
The president isnt a client of the attorney general.
Excuse me, sir?
The president isnt a client of the attorney general.
Im happy to answer.
‎Your Honor
Hearing from the witness on this point is highly irregular.
‎Well, gentlemen, um
This is my courtroom.
‎But the witness is the former, uh
Hes just stated his willingness, you know,
so, for the purposes of voir dire, Ill hear the answer.
Thank you.
Mr. Clark, uh, did President Johnson ask you a question in that phone call?
The president asked me if I intended to seek any indictments
related to the riots the previous month in Chicago.
And what did you tell him?
I told him we wouldnt be seeking indictments.
And can you tell us why?
An investigation by our criminal division led to the conclusion
that the riots were started by the Chicago Police Department.
And, Mr. Clark, did your counterintelligence division
make a report as well?
They concluded that there was no conspiracy by the defendants
to incite violence during the convention.
And then what happened on the first Tuesday,
after the first Monday, in November of that year?
Richard Nixon was elected president.   Sustained.
Nobody objected   We do.
Its wellknown theres no love lost between the witness
and the sitting attorney general.
This witness was called to wage a political attack
and should not be allowed before the jury.
Mr. Kunstler.
Your Honor, you cannot possibly be considering
not allowing the jury to hear what weve just heard?
The witness cant present them testimony
that would assist in making a determination of guilt or innocence.
He just testified his own Justice Department came to the conclusion
The current Justice Department,
the one that matters, came to a new conclusion.
Therefore, motivation of the prosecution has to be called into question.
The motivation of the prosecution is not an issue in a courtroom.
In any courtroom Ive ever been in, except this one.
Object.
Mr. Kunstler, do you have any further examination
that will demonstrate that this witness will make a material contribution,
or should I just ask him to step down?
Youve ruled.
Youre not gonna let the jury hear his testimony.
Not unless you can demonstrate to me,
which you have not thus far done, that this witness
Are you any good?   Are you addressing the court reporter?
Keep up with us.   Mr. Kunstler
Is this prosecution politically motivated?
Object!   Yes.
President Nixon inherited an unpopular war.
Yes.   Step down, Mr. Clark.
And your clients make it more unpopular every day.
‎This administration is paranoid about the SDS, the Mobe, the New Left
Mr. Clark, please.
Please, sir. I will be forced to find you in contempt.
Do you understand?
I do, Your Honor.
Then step down, please.
Thank you, sir.
Just get to work on the appeal.
Your Honor, when the jury returns,
will they be informed that the defense had called
the former attorney general of the United States of America,
but this court ruled that he couldnt testify?
No, that motion will be denied.
Cite Mr. Kunstler with his third count of contempt.
Youre a thug.
Did one of the defendants speak?
I did. I said youre a thug, because you are.
Dave.   Please sit, Mr. Dellinger.
If were guilty, why not give us a trial?   Dave.
Marshals, seat the defendant.
If were guilty, which you have clearly decided
Dave, Ive got   Watch yourself.
Youve clearly decided that we were, why not
‎No. You dont No, you dont need to grab my arm.
If were guilty, why not give us a trial?
I mean, I have sat here for six months and watched you!
You dont need to grab my arm.
I have watched you. Ive watched you
Sir
Its okay. He would not hurt a fly.
Take him out of here. Lock him up.
I hit him.
Im sorry.
Im sorry.
Theres only one thing. Theres one thing to do.
Solidarity with Dave.
Tomorrow, we go into court and get ourselves arrested.
Were already arrested.
Is Bill talking to you about taking the stand?
The press guys are saying Bills been talking to you about it.
Hes been talking about it.
He thinks you might get the crowd worked up with a position paper?
Maybe he thinks I wont try to get the crowd worked up at all.
Maybe he thinks there are jurors who relied on the safety of the police
and are put off when someone calls them pigs,
or maybe he wants a witness who dresses like a grown man.
The cops in this city in the summer of 1968 were pigs.
I wonder how many of them had kids in Vietnam.
Hes gonna take the stand, not you?
And were okay with that?
Abbie?
What did you mean, the last thing I want is to end the war?
What?
Centuries ago when the trial started, you said, why did I come to Chicago?
And I said, To end the war.
And then you turned to everyone and you said,
The last thing he wants is to end the war.
What did you mean by that?
That youre making the most of your closeup.
‎Yeah
No more war, no Abbie Hoffman.   Whats your problem with me?
I wish people would stop asking me that.
Dave wouldnt want us to   Answer it.
One time.
All right. My problem is that for the next 50 years
when people think of progressive politics, theyre gonna think of you.
Theyre gonna think of you and your idiot followers
passing out daisies to soldiers and trying to levitate the Pentagon.
So theyre not gonna think of equality or justice,
theyre not gonna think of education or poverty or progress.
Theyre gonna think of a bunch of stoned, lost,
disrespectful, foulmouthed, lawless losers,
and so well lose elections.
All because of me?
Yeah.
Winning elections is the first thing on your wish list?
Equality, justice, education, poverty and progress, theyre second?
If you dont win elections, it doesnt matter whats second.
And it is astonishing to me that someone still has to explain that to you.
Okay.
Okay, so, uh, Jerry was talking about standing
We dont have any money.
Im sorry, what?
We dont have any money.
So I stage stunts, and cameras come and microphones come,
and its astonishing that someone still has to explain that to you.
Youre trading a cow for magic beans.
That ended up working.
What?
The magic beans. There was a giant up there.
Oh, for fucks
I cant remember what happened after that. The little boy may have gotten eaten
The giant turned out to be nice.
Are you sure?   No.
Its hard to believe the seven of us werent able to end a war.
‎Let me ask you something
You guys should shake hands.
Think Chicago wouldve gone differently if Kennedy got the nomination?
‎Do I
‎Just   Yeah.
Yes, I do. I think the Irish guys would have sat down with Daley,
‎and Yes.
I think so too.   Yeah?
Thats why I was wondering.
Werent you just a little bit happy when the bullet ripped through his head?
No Chicago, no Tom Hayden.
I was one of the pallbearers, you fucking animal!
Thats right, were not goin to jail because of what we did,
were goin to jail because of who we are!
Think about that the next time you shrug off cultural revolution.
We define winning differently, you and I.
Bill, you shouldve seen it.
Tom tried to beat me up, but through sheer force of intellectual superiority
Stop talking. Just stop talking.
Forans office turned this over tonight.
In discovery.
It was given to them by somebody in the crowd.
No foul play, there are affidavits.
They really did just get this.
Whats on the tape?
The sound of you starting the Chicago riot.
Hey. What?
Somebody had a tape recorder by the bandshell. They got you saying it.
Its a clear tape. You cant take the stand.
I can handle Schultz and the tape.   No.
Theyll play the tape anyway, right?
If you take the stand, theyll make you answer for it, and you cant.
Theyd just cracked Rennies head open.   So you started a riot.
Defense rests.   They had just cracked
‎If blood is gonna flow   Bill
‎let it flow all over the city.
Theyd just clubbed Rennie.   Everybody kept their cool.
Abbie, Dave Shit, this guy kept his cool.
Youre the one who lost it.
I can take the stand.
You wanna hear what cross from Schultz will sound like?
Sure. Ill show you what my answers will sound like.
They called him a radical, they called him a criminal!
They called him UnAmerican.
First of all, it turned out the guy climbing the flagpole was a kid.
It seems like you guys attract an awful lot of underage minors.
Do you wanna object?   Objection.
Overruled.   We attract the people
who have the most to lose by this war continuing.
Im glad you brought that up. Did you serve?
‎I wasnt drafted. I didnt try to evade the
I had a high number.   High number? But you didnt enlist?
I did not volunteer to kill Vietnamese people, no.
‎You testified you saw at least six policemen start to go after the man
Sorry, the kid who was climbing the flagpole?
Yes.   It was dark.
You were 100 yards away. What do you have, telescopic nightvision?
There were floodlights.
And when they called him antiAmerican, he said, No,
that ignominious distinction goes to those who mouth Americas values
while breaking Americas heart.
Id like to introduce you now
to Carl Oglesby of the SDS!   Come on!
Hey, its all right. Hes a kid. Well get him down.
Isnt it great to be here in Chicago!
Come here. Son of a bitch!
Hey, leave the kid alone!
Hold him!   Hey!
‎Jesus! What is wrong with
Rennie was trying to get the police off of the kid.
Get the police off of the kid.
Yes.   How?
He was   Grabbing them?
Get off of him! Hey! Get the
Id like to say to the cops back there that were allowed to be here.
‎We have permits for this.   And out of nowhere
It was six armed police officers versus Rennie and a pocket protector.
I can understand that response.   How about your response?
Lets press play.
‎Were gonna need medics
The whole world is watching.
The whole world is watching!
Theyve just beaten Rennie, Dave.
Listen. We can still get everyone out of here safely.
No, we cant.
The whole world is watching!
The whole world is watching!
Dellinger tried to stop you from saying what you were about to say.
Tell them to stay calm.
No.   Tom?
Did you tell em to stay calm?
Wait, Rennie Davis has just been beaten by the police.
Rennies skull has been cracked open.
Did you tell your crowd to stay calm   Bill
Im Richard Schultz, Tom. And John Mitchell told me to win.
Did you tell your crowd to stay calm or
‎Yes. If blood is gonna flow
‎let it flow all over the city!
God damn it! Tom!   If gas is gonna be used,
let it come down all over Chicago! Were going to the convention!
Lets get on the streets! Get on the street!
If blood is gonna flow, let it flow all over the city.
What was that, an order to start a peaceful demonstration?
Once you had a moment to settle down, did you try and stop people?
Fuck you!   Get off him!
You didnt try and stop anyone.   No.
The bridges! Head to the bridges! The bridges!
You told them to go to the footbridges.
The ones able to make it out of the park without getting arrested or maimed.
And those people, the ones you sent to the footbridges,
did they know what was on the other side?
You are ordered to turn around immediately.
All access to the convention was blocked.
By an armored division.   The Illinois National Guard.
Theyre the good guys.
Jeeps fitted with concertina wire called Daley dozers.
When did I stop being one of the good guys?
Lets find out. Were glass bottles thrown at the police?
We want justice!
‎No, dont approach! Stay back! Stay
Some people threw bottles. Dave was trying to shut it down.
We were frustrated. All three footbridges
So you, Abbie, Jerry and 11 others eluded the police.
I wouldnt say we eluded them. We were fleeing from them.
‎Found an unguarded bridge
Now heres where things got weird.
You, Abbie, Jerry and 11 others found the only way to the convention.
In the lobby of the Hilton, right next to the convention center,
is a bar called the Haymarket Tavern.
The Haymarket Tavern is a watering hole
for Chicagos political class and their hookers.
And the place was packed to watch Humphrey getting the nomination a mile away.
From the House of Representatives who represents the great state of Ohio,
representative Wayne Hays to the stage.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
The great state of Ohio, the Buckeye State
The Buckeye State!
One side of the Haymarket Tavern is a picture window with smoked glass.
You cant see inside it from the street.
You made it through the riot police,
tear gas, the National Guard, youre in sight of the convention center.
Where we got trapped.   Whats another word for trapped?
We were trapped between the window and the police.
Whats another word for trapped?
Caught, right?
Inside the bar, its like the 60s never happened.
Outside the bar, the 60s were being performed
for anyone who looked out of the window.
Anyone know what a buckeye is?
Buckeye?   Yeah.
A buckeye is a nut. A poisonous nut.
Hey.
94 votes for Vice President Humphrey.
Am I the only one who sees whats going on out there?
And we see a cop do something you dont ever wanna see a cop do.
60s outside the bar, 50s inside the bar.
And then, an unnecessary metaphor.
Its a nut.
What?   A nut!
Were you resisting arrest?
‎They pushed us through the window!   You overrun the riot police
Which is more than Rennie can say!
Over 400 people admitted to area hospitals with severe injuries!
They had armored vehicles and bayonets! They took off their name tags and badges!
We were trying to protest peacefully at the fucking convention!
Hands behind your back.
Yeah.
Who started the riot, Tom?
‎Our
What?
‎Our
Our blood.
Our blood.
‎If our blood is gonna flow
You meant to say,
If our blood is gonna flow, then let it flow all over the city.
You didnt mean the cops.
You were saying, If theyre gonna beat us up, everyone should see it.
Jesus Christ!
‎You do this
He does this, its a pattern.
Read his portion of the Port Huron Statement.
He implies possessive pronouns and uses vague noun modifiers.
You read the Port Huron Statement?
Ive read everything youve published.
I didnt know that.
Youre a talented guy.
Except for the possessive pronouns.   I know.
And the vague noun modifiers.
Put Abbie on the stand instead.
Would you state your full name for the record, please?
Its Abbie.
Last name.
My grandfathers name was Shaboysnakoff,
but he was a Russian Jew protesting antiSemitism,
so he was assigned a name that would sound like yours.
What is your date of birth?
Psychologically, 1960.
What were you doing until 1960?
Nothing. I believe its called an American education.
Why dont we just proceed with the testimony?
Sure.
Abbie, do you know why youre on trial here?
We carried certain ideas across state lines.
Not machine guns or drugs or little girls. Ideas.
When we crossed from New York to New Jersey to Pennsylvania to Ohio to Illinois,
we had certain ideas.
And for that,
we were gassed, beaten, arrested and put on trial.
Okay.
In 1861, Lincoln said in his inaugural address,
When the people shall grow weary of their constitutional right
to amend their government,
they shall exert their revolutionary right
to dismember and overthrow that government.
And if Lincoln had given that speech in Lincoln Park last summer,
hed be put on trial with the rest of us.
So how do you overthrow or dismember, as you say, your government peacefully?
In this country, we do it every four years.
Thats all.
So Chicago was just a massive voter registration drive.
Yeah.
Did you hear the tape we played of Tom Hayden?
Yes.   You heard the tape?
Did you hear Mr. Hayden give an instruction to his people
to take to the streets?
His people? Haydens not a Mafia don and neither am I.
Did you hear him say,
If blood is gonna flow, let it flow all over the city?
‎The beginning of that sentence was supposed to be
Yes. Yes, I did.
Whatd you think of that?
I think Tom Hayden is a badass of an American patriot.
I didnt ask what you thought of the man, I asked of his instruction of the crowd.
Ive also heard Tom Hayden say, Lets end the war,
but nobody stopped shooting.
You can do anything to anything by taking it out of context, Mr. Schultz.
If blood is gonna flow? How do you take that out of context?
A guy once said, I am come to set a man at variance with his father
and the daughter against her mother. You know who said it?
Jerry Rubin.
Yes.
No.
It was Jesus Christ.
Matthew 10:35.
And it sure sounds like hes telling kids to kill their parents.
Until you read Matthew 10:34 and 10:36.
Do you have
Hed just seen his best friend get hit in the head with a nightstick.
The police, Mr. Schultz, whose people are they?
Do you have contempt for your government?   Do I
Yeah, do you have contempt for your government?
I think the institutions of our democracy are wonderful things
that right now are populated by some terrible people.
Please answer the question.
Tell me again?
Do you have contempt for your government?
Ill tell you, its nothing compared to the contempt my government has for me.
Weve heard testimony from 27 witnesses, under oath,
that say you hoped for a confrontation with the police,
that your plans for the convention were designed specifically
to draw the police into a confrontation.
If Id known it was gonna be the first wish of mine that came true,
I wouldve aimed higher.
Its a yes or no question. When you came to Chicago,
were you hoping for a confrontation with the police?
Im concerned you have to think about it.
Give me a moment, would you, friend?
Ive never been on trial for my thoughts before.
All rise.
69 CR 180,
United States of America v. David Dellinger et al.
The law requires that before sentencing,
I allow the defendant or defendants to make a statement to the court.
Ive advised defense counsel that the court will allow one defendant
to speak for the group, and Ive been advised
the group has chosen Mr. Hayden.
Is that right?   Yes, sir.
Mr. Hayden, in spite of your actions during the convention,
you are the one defendant who has shown, during this trial,
respect for this court and for this country,
and remorse for those actions.
‎I truly believe And I mean this.
I truly believe that one day you will be a very productive part of our system.
Id like you to make your statement brief and without political content of any kind.
If you make your statement brief,
if you make it respectful, if you make it remorseful and to the point,
I will look favorably upon that when administering my sentence.
Do you understand what Ive just said?
Mr. Hayden?   Yes, sir.
Youll look favorably in sentencing.   Yes.
If I make my statement respectful and remorseful.
Yes.
Im sorry, Your Honor, what was the third one?
Brief.
Brief.
If I do these things, my government will look favorably on me.
You understand?
Yes, sir.
Please begin.
Okay.
Your Honor, since this trial began,
4,752 US troops have been killed in Vietnam.
‎And the following are their names.
Private First Class Dennis Walter Kipp, 18 years old.
Private Eric Alan Bosch, 21 years old.
Mr. Kunstler!
Lance Corporal Robert Earl Ellis, 19 years old.
Mr. Kunstler! He will not read 5,000 names for the record!
Robert Ford, 21 years old.
There will be order!
Staff Sergeant David Cruz Chavez, 31 years old.
Lance Corporal Douglas W. Jackson, 19 years old.
There will be order!
Private First Class William Melvin Johnson, 20 years old.
There will be order!
‎Lance Corporal Robert Ryan Hammond   There will be order!
19 years old.
Corporal Philip Lawrence Jewell, 20 years old.
He will not read 4,500 names!   Sergeant Brian John Morrow, 19 years.
Master Sergeant James Warren Finsel, 36 years old.
There will be order!
Technical Sergeant James William Greenwood, 33 years old.
Specialist Fourth Class Edward B. Cribb, 21 years old.
Corporal David Michael King, 20 years old.
‎Specialist Keith Harold Reitz   Order!
21 years old.
Mr. Hayden, put that down!
Private First Class James Clinton DeFranco, 19 years old.
Corporal Kenneth Joe Auston, 18 years old.
First Lieutenant Donald Bryan Mancill, 24 years old.
What are you doin?   Respect for the fallen.
Lets show em some respect, sir.
25 years old.
Private First Class Wayne Karl Woodland, 20 years old.
Staff Sergeant Thomas Anthony Scibelli, 26 years old.
Private First Class Richard Henry Durant, 20 years old.
Lance Corporal Harry Earl Farmer, 25 years old.
Corporal Daniel Alan Frey, 19 years old.
‎Second Lieutenant Franklin Theodore James, 26 years old
24 years old.
Sit down!
Sergeant Dale Frank Olmstead, 20 years old.
The whole world is watching!
